https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/python-projects-for-beginners/


date - 4th December , 2024
Listening to Philip Col 
The coding project that improved my skill the most - 

There are mostly all the application which needs authentication , Chat and Profile Building . 
We used react native , node js , and my sql . 

Node.js is a JavaScript Runtime environment -- it's what actually executes all your server-side
code . Express is a framework that provides basic features for developing a web application in Node.js 
While Node.js is already capable of listening to requests on a port , Express makes it simpler to set up a web server 
eliminating boilerplate code and offering a simpler API for creating endpoints. 

GraphQL is a query language , GraphQL.js is the JavaScript implementation of GraphQL. Neither is capable of creating 
an endpoint or web server . GraphQL itself doesn't listen to requests being made to a particular sport . 

Node.js 
A runtime environment that allows JavaScript to run on the server . It's a low-level environment that 
provides essential modules for server-side JavaScript . 

Express.js 
A web application framework that's built on top of node.js . It provides higher-level abstractions for web
development , including features like routing , middleware and templating . 


Firebase
Firebase is Google's mobile application development platform that helps you build , improve and grow your application . 
Firebase is Google's mobile application development platform . (yes , that again)
You're gonna save a ton of time and money using Firebase products rather than trying to build them yourself . 
You can use all of it , or none of it . or just the bits you want. 
All those bits are designed to work well together , managed in one console . 
https://medium.com/firebase-developers/what-is-firebase-the-complete-story-abridged-bcc730c5f2c0

Serverless architecture
Serverless architecture is a software design approach that allows developers to build and run applications without 
managing the underlying infrastructure . In a serverless architecture , the cloud service provider is responsible for 
managing adn scaling the cloud infrastructure that runs on the application code. 


Firestore 
Firestore is a cloud-hosted , NoSQL document database from Google that's part of Firebase. 
Firestore is a JSON-compatible database that stores data in documents , which are organized 
into collections . Each document contains a set of key-value pairs.  

Reading through the documentation helps how the software is documented. 



Date - 4 December , 2024
Before you start coding , learn about the low level language . 

1. Code in a low level language .
i am pretty sure that many of you will be able to code in the language like python , 
javaScript or Ruby . 
So , take the concepts and code in low level language like C 
To not leak memory , to not give access to hackers , and to not crash when running , u need 
to code in C .

2 . Learn as Assembly varient . 
Learning the CPU is going to be a superpower .

3 . Learn reverse engineering 


Date - 4 December , 2024
Challenging projects every programmer should try 

Before even starting to code , learn what are you intrested in . 

Text Editor 
2D game - Space Invaders 
Compiler 
Mini Operating System 
Spreadsheet(hard)
Video game (hard)


6th December - 2024 
Everybody needs to learn to code. 

Coding is the new literacy . 

1 . Coding is Hard Work 
Hard work is more valuable then Talent. Coding is just like playing an instrument ,at first you will suck but 
later you are going to enjoy it . 
2. Learn Patterns 
It totally doesn't matter which language you use , it is just that you should be good at one .
In programming what matters is problem solving , so it hardly make any difference to use any 
language . 
Once you know the use case of for loop , while loop , it hardly matters to use any language . 
Learning syntax is not going to help , 
At large companies, they are going to test your problem solving skills looking so they 
are going to let you write pseudocode. 
3. Stop watching , Start doing . 
Will you be able to play guitar , if you are watching to play guitar . 
Books and tuturials are great , but it is not going to help you . 
If you are very serious about coding , you should be coding a minimum hours per day , 
so that is the reason why the pilot needs to have miniumum flying hours.  
Experience matters . 
4. Stay Healthy  
Health is important . 
5 . Richard Feyman
    . Choose a topic 
    . Explain it to a 12 year old 
    . Reflect , refine and simplify 
    . organize and review 
in short you learn most about programming , when you try to teach about it to someone else . 
Become a mentor . 
6. Dopamine Hits . 
Achievable goals , needs to done everyday . 
7. But not too hard 
Pace yourself and take a break. 
8. Think like a engineer . 









Data Engineering with Python 
Data engineering is the development , operation and maintainance of data infrastructure , either on-premises or in the cloud 
(or hybrid or multi-cloud) comprising databases and pipelines to extract , transform and load data . 

Data engineering is what makes data science possible. 
Data engineeing need to understand data formats , models, and structures to efficiently transport data , whereas 
data scientists utilize them for building statistical models and mathematical computation . 

Data engineering tools :-
Volume , Variety , Velocity . 
The volume of data has grown substantially , moving a thousand records from database requires different tools and techniques then 
moving millions of rows or handling millions of transactions a minute. 
Data engineers need tools that handle a variety of data formats in different locations (databases , APIs , files)
The velocity of data is always increasing . 

The most common databases used in data warehousing are Amazon Redshift , Google BigQuery , 
Apache Cassandra and other NoSQL databases such as Elasticsearch . 
Amazon Redshift , Google BigQuery and Cassandra deviate from the traditional rows of 
relational databases and store data in a columnar format. 

Data processing engines :-
Apache Spark works with Python DataFrames , making it an ideal tool for Python developers. 
Apache Kafka is another option , Apache Flink , and Apache storm 


Data Pipelines : 
Combining a transactional database , a programming language , a processing engine , and a data warehouse results in 
a pipeline. 

Apache Airflow : 
the most popular framework for building data engineering pipelines in PYthon is Apache airflow . 




